sonica somewhere else in that you sit
here uh this your place but I only got
another one of de la Rosa is it who's
that he was a journalist yes a long time
for a long time well that was how I
started my career yes a problem of my
grant of ether p.m. stiffed seller
petroleum pre hablamos de luca a
pseudonym liver Newsome said Sam Ovid na
doge Katrina Victorian cabbage sandakan
estimator and as to see here in studio
how do you feel in Dorset oh great well
first of all it's great to be here with
you and in the steel studio as we were
talking before I've been a journalist
for many years and it's always great to
come back some nostalgia very much
although I spent my time behind camera
is more than in front of cameras but
it's always nice to be being a studio so
thank you very much for inviting me and
as for how do I feel in Belarus yeah
after now more than three years it's
really does feel like home so what does
in how is the situation is human rights
and arrows okay I I said it there as
well that I think one of the worst
things that anybody can do for Human
Rights is to actually politicize human
rights so you know when people ask me
about human rights in Belarus first of
all I start by saying there are human
rights issues in every country you know
including my own including the United
States of America you countries and
elsewhere so Belarus is no exception
human rights is not only political
rights it's not only civil rights it
also includes health and education you
know so it's socio-economic and cultural
rights
so there are challenges and some areas
there is progress in other areas this
also we must acknowledge and I do this
all the time and when somebody says oh
but is the United Nations able to work
on human rights belarus I say but we are
working on human rights all the time if
you're working with people living with
HIV and helping them to access treatment
if you are working with people with
disabilities and helping the government
to now implement the convention that it
signed last year if you're working on
gender issues if you're working on
unemployment issues is all human rights
issues no so yes we do work on human
rights at the same time I think it's
important to note that there is still
some progress in certain other areas
which we would like to continue to help
Belarus on vellore suggest 17
sustainable development goals of the UN
how long is the way and where are we 17
sustainable development goals was signed
on to buy buy all the world's leaders
last year it the the what we call the
2030 agenda came into effect in january
of this year so it's from 2016 till 2030
we went through a very exhaustive
process to ask people what is the kind
of world you want to have in 15 years
and in belarus we did that too for two
years we went through a process of
talking to people there was an online
survey thousands of Belarusians went and
filled out the survey and they said
these are the things that we want we
want better health we want better
education we want better infrastructure
we want a crime free society we want
better governance more transparent
governance we want to eliminate poverty
we don't want to be hungry and we want
to protect our planet so these are the
goals so about the future and
responsibility
the big problem today is addiction I'm
an alcoholic drugs etc why it's so big
problem today why so many people young
people are addicted this is a very
serious problem for Belarus but of
course it is also a very serious problem
for many countries around the world
alcohol is a particular problem and
doesn't only affect young people as you
know unfortunately Belarus has one of
the highest per capita consumption
especially amongst men and we see this
much is a reasonable so there are a
number of different reasons and one is
that we have a what I believe that when
you have a society that has not fully
does not fully understand and comprehend
the consequences or maybe you think that
you can delay the consequences or that
yes there are consequences but it will
not happen to me then you start engaging
in risky behavior and it's actually
human nature to think you know what I
can have a party now and somebody will
clean up tomorrow oh so I can let's say
abuse my body now I know that you know
you if you smoke you get cancer but i
also know somebody who lived in 100
years old and i don't i don't know what
will get tomorrow for example exactly
exactly so there is i think and one of
the things that we're trying to do use
to we've started a program to focus
particularly on
what we call non-communicable diseases
ninety-six percent of the people who
died in Belarus died of cancer or
cardiovascular diseases much of it is
linked to the use abuse of alcohol and
tobacco at the same time you have as you
know a life expectancy disparity between
men and women yeah it's much worse in
rural areas quite significant and that
is also directly linked to alcohol abuse
you men in Belarus consume per capita
around 30 litres per annum of pure
alcohol so that is that is a lock in
tomorrow how about now you also have
serious problem in Belarus with child
injuries preventable injuries to
children quite a lot of it is linked to
the fact that parents are alcoholics and
there is a lack of parental supervision
then you have a serious problem as well
with domestic violence which we're
helping to change and I hope this year
with the government we will be able to
introduce a lower specifically on
domestic violence also linked to alcohol
and you asked me the question why is
this and this is one of the things you
know we historically in such situations
we go out there and put posters give
lectures to people you know maybe bring
a famous person to say don't drink don't
smoke and daria dumber dumber trova for
example is the UN DPS goodwill
ambassador here in Belarus and she's
great she's works on a lot of these
public campaigns with us but sometimes
you think you know if you weren't really
get through to somebody who's addicted
to drugs
maybe you need somebody who was addicted
to drugs before to actually go and speak
to that person who is still addicted as
sort of a peer-to-peer program
cast is in voters interpretation egt Rio
great rival Priscilla with adina Thomas
root of cadet SMS TT netra p say motrin
evo Priam meta Dona puddle NAR commands
versatility in station me now so Wallace
Puccini why wouldn't a state nearly 300
boy at the top waste rock to honey pity
da de doble de Vionnet syllogism sir
shina pakka padhai CEO Vanessa days the
do not see me yet on Madonna's a gene
mccurdy hoodie is adina you her card
they would massage young fella here
rihana him a dom shall I of is to
thought she left on this is collarless
amazed knock woman smile I oh no no
tampoco se pasa x fo moffatt le move it
machete they will beat
otcbb were brutally reputation pissant
MDC scatter hey chiquita que toda una
pijama stay at voltages melodious no se
me plz on visual initial this new puzzle
but open a shop robots was no
statistical program on democracies best
partner a laser diode di Canio snideness
grain an EVO % any apple sheriff to
adjust referee kotori [__] coastal
green no priyatama methadone premonition
cinema abstinence syndrome will percent
of net old Atticus watch a DVD bully
style cognition esta gente purchase this
meta don't I need mr. Rawat I knew
destitute a bed sheet is in its own way
utilities which infects till you gotta
stay at the mall when you still need to
stop ages of the policies of the best
partner our nixon signal manages
Australian Arab also dead sea mio
Cassini pedal Bastable cell which is
programmed in of sick days accrued CMO
narcotic of citizen rabota too obsessed
owner venezia chest with seminars
parsimony row slobodan evramur hodit
theater episode Carson a fujitsu [__]
normal nature is no I don't think about
metal don't therapy I was about to get
to that so for instance one of the
things that we're doing is we have 19
points around the country where you have
methadone substitution therapy it's a
successful or it's highly successful I
have been to several of these places and
talk to people who are taking this
method or substitution therapy and it's
it's phenomenal the transformation in
their lives you know they've gone two
gone from being criminals because they
had to of course support their drug
habit which for some people it was
costing them more than fifty dollars a
day
of course they didn't have the money so
they were stealing the money and then
they were injecting drugs so it was very
risky they were sharing needles and in
the process they were also being
infected with HIV and on top of that of
course they become unproductive in
society they cannot work their lives--
collapse the families collapse and they
become a real burden to society what I
saw in these places in the methadone
substitution therapy points you know
people who have picked up their lives
they were again parents they were
husband's there were wives they were
employees of companies and yes they were
still coming to the methadone
substitution therapy point so different
opinions it's expensive as well that's
the point I mean I would argue and in
fact we did a study in go Mel Oh blast
to show the financial burden of having
injecting drug users whether you're
spending on law enforcement or you're
spending on health care or you're taking
care of children of drug addicts etc
it's a huge cost to society to the
economy not to mention the fact that
they are unproductive in the labor for
they're not producing anything labour
force the flip side of it is that
methadone substitution cost one dollar a
day one dollar a day for one man for one
person as opposed to that person going
and stealing from somebody else and
getting fifty dollars to inject drugs I
mean it's simple math financially as far
as I'm concerned there is no argument
against methadone substitution therapy
it does take a quite a long time and for
some people it might leave very long or
forever but look I take statins for
high cholesterol and that's for life
okay what it helps me to do it's a drug
or it helps me to do is to lead a
reasonably normal life okay without
without it causing complications to me
all without it causing complications to
my family what if what if I have a heart
attack gets it so my point is taking a
drug per se is not the issue the issue
is an addiction to a drug that does not
allow you to behave and act as a good
citizen that's the question and for me I
think that methadone substitution
actually it is a drunk but it gives an
opportunity for somebody who is addicted
who's a criminal who's and productive in
the labor force who is a problem for the
community for society at large an
opportunity to now be once again a good
citizen of the country how could other
people live side by side with such
people is addicted so it's not enough
just to simply dispense methadone once a
day and say okay now it's fine you have
to have a psychological support you have
to also work with the families to help
them to help these people you have to
eventually look at ways that they can be
employed because they can't be sitting
at home and they want to actually work
most of them that I had spoken to so it
is the program it's a comprehensive
program psychological emotional economic
support you know what I mean I mean the
people film dangerous to live side by
side tourism there's a dick Figures you
know
a fear of other people who we think are
different to us stems mostly from a lack
of understanding and a lack of
understanding seems mostly from a lack
of knowledge so I'm a scuba diver right
yeah I love to dive but I was I didn't
always love to dive there was a time
that I was even though I come from an
island and I love to swim the idea of
you know going 20 meters into the sea
scalp living daylights out of me so then
I decided I was going to it was living
in some more small island in the Pacific
at one time I saw a great opportunity
i'm gonna learn how to dive what do you
do when you learn how to drive you go
through a three day course on
understanding the ocean on understanding
how to deal with certain situations that
might occur like a current etc you
understand the creatures that are in the
ocean and the next thing you do so once
you do that you go from being afraid to
actually embracing the beauty of what is
around you so for me fear can only be
dispelled if we can help people
understand and so it's really important
you say o people are afraid yeah people
are afraid of people not just not just
injecting drug users people are afraid
of complies with no people living with
HIV for example I remember this in the
mid-1980s when the first person who was
HIV positive in Sri Lanka you know
became publicly known it would happen to
be a relative of mine and I still
remember people were even afraid to go
into the same room as this person
because no they don't understand just
precisely then when our the world has
changed but there's still fear and as a
result of the fear there is stigma take
disabilities you know I when I was a kid
I had my parents had a had a friend who
was a photographer and this photographer
had some kids and one of the children
was my age I was about four or five but
she had a mental disability and kind of
and so she was autistic okay but I was
no not even five maybe four she was full
and I was so scared of his child no
because she was different and I remember
every time I went to his house I was
terrified because his child would come
and try to speak to me and but I was
like this person this child is different
to other children I don't know and I'm
scared and I still remember because this
gentleman used to take photographs all
the time when mr. go and so I used to
associate this child with anybody who
came up to me with a camera so if you
look at my pictures till I was about 10
years old hat so I don't have any with
me but every single picture you could
see the fear on my face I look like as
if I was about to cry because I
associated a camera with this child who
had a mental disability I was so afraid
of her but you know what my parents said
they didn't stop taking me that that's
the kept taking me there more and more
stressful know eventually I actually
began to for me this child was now
normal it was I understood her I knew
how to interact with her and you know I
think from that day onwards it was it
was a cause for me that you know we must
fight stigma against people with
disabilities physical or mental so
people with disabilities how does it
feel in Belarus well
you have approximately five hundred and
forty thousand people with disabilities
registered in this country out of a
population of a little over nine and a
half million that's a lot but it's not
much more than the overall average
around the world you have a billion
people in the in the world with some
form of disability now I ask people to
guess I ask Belarusians usually when I
talk about this issue has them to guess
how many people do you think live in
this country with disabilities and
usually people come up with very small
numbers far from the reality and it is
because they said well we don't see them
where are they you walk out in the
street and you don't see people on
wheelchairs you don't people's you don't
see people with white canes so it is the
invisible population right yeah but the
fact is you don't see them because there
are so much they're there because of all
the barriers that a diff whether they
have physical barriers or economic
barriers social barriers so one of the
things that we've tried to do is we've
started a campaign that we've called
inclusive manner rules so there are
three things that we would like to do in
this inclusive Belarus campaign that
we've already started and we're taking
it all around the country during the
course of this year is first of all we
want to try to help people understand
that there is such a thing as exclusion
that there are people are in their
country in their communities perhaps
even down the street who are excluded
for some reason or the other that they
don't run who is special yes but also
are unable to live like you and I
because of these bad kinds of barriers
that I talked about so we need to make
people understand that because people
say oh we don't see them so they don't
right so one is one is creates this
awareness that there are people all
around you who are different maybe to
you in some way or the other but
actually they're still people there
people exactly so that's for us second
thing I think what we would really like
to change is the the fear that just
because somebody looks different to you
somebody talks different somebody
dresses different you or somebody has a
different economic background it's a
poor a person you know or has a
disability always at one time injecting
drug user there is nothing to be afraid
of unlike my diving story you know if
you really understand then you won't be
afraid so that's the second thing and
the third thing is if we can get the
people who themselves feel excluded by
society if we can empower them and and
make them feel confident that yes they
are different yes they may be legally
known as disabled but maybe they have
different abilities so take people with
autism for example and resisting in
Denmark and I'm trying to work with an
organization Denmark and organizations
here because autistic children a match
much better in certain aspects of the IT
industry then you and I would never be
because they have the patience you know
they can actually sit and do a 50,000
piece jigsaw puzzle I can't I can't even
do a 500 so they have different
abilities
Scutaro viva la chanson via via not
three analysis yo pro from God okula
hospital necklace lead it is not raining
lava 7y on evo new stupid November ozium
of abuddin classic meat processor
Virginia Nick's party on the bottom edge
the end move over stone miss least was
motionless to touch with mr. bill no
postage its original a cemetery with
Susannah Webber fish necklace no I'm
sure Stanley mfs my awesomeness test
it's me it must remain absolutely nians
la kasbah ET de buena quetesh collects a
soda mr. not let ADA Koga Kuchiki Rodney
Nichelle Nichols dismissed neuroscience
luca's animals especially stay Etta
cerda pedagogy part of class spits honor
establish a fluke rhogam stove arrabiata
maglev easy to cheat ela e prinia kratom
st sheet would confirm at Sue's group
Rafi Rafi as this evokes is an ETA I
denied him a despot selling acoustic a
class of khatron individual a bottle not
rizvi teams Luca reach machinima tema
now it's agora de buy food pyramid is
spits class of a business careers
cutaneous reprieve Allah cheerios never
admit a mathematical amis keep repo
diode of Resnick auditoria I integrates
a racket nurit McGee EP knee matoaca
travelin academy school aprovel
inclusive Naboo cheney treats at NASA
sequential detonado post needs exhibit
is malevich papanasam at xenon salad
kpop assam skazala mezcal Carazo viejos
annoyed picard witch hazel school miss
McKenna by Schubert matematica cool
image states that futbolista teachers
Valley is the barcelona be coated with
perfusion lab resist qivana bhaduri
shiva Namara
if you are going to create some
artificial world for your child then
you're not helping your child because
when that child grows up they will
suddenly realize that they are not
equipped to handle with a diverse world
so they would know how to handle it so
you're not helping your child and
secondly I think what you also doing is
that in the process that you will you
will create friction in society it is a
tease Oh every time you start
identifying yourself as being different
to somebody else all you're doing is
building walls mask of our chilies
needle bishkek astana little OSHA exit
allies invites a bio blog at verity
neuropathy which tights as that emerged
on our own if owned by desh ki mala des
invalides Alexi especially businessman
zaboo he will move at yet strife dt sim
not set liriope visual Enoch da da real
blood waukesha demotius 4220 Elsa
Padilla campuses in Gucci Rachel D'Avino
steady Veronica you need Nia by b.o.b
Alexi badar valsan amenia Bremen villa
cottage stony emo delicious Knox's
barrace yo voy como estamos viata lenovo
amberton dunno y analysi roll a
presentation oh my cigar praia da língua
[__] official new chiodos Amelia pond ab
no yes abhi tak da Sabrina Marcel
abortion hospital via
the ranch is possibly my reason why was
Lance a vigil samajh toca naturally
Scott's in a lot yep opened an insurer's
nibble about Mia citrus on the bridge of
cedar bonnet CBS a London via correction
lieu de los lava is there we've searched
up a butcher need its loss mom / opacity
Stockton you gotta be charged okis level
22 near the dream of Colossus for custom
chasuna al-assad that can madura who
thus saith not know misty yoshizawa see
what no Alex es muy business Cynthia
warship mr. small action bratty material
magazines parts even esta para I show
you what voice on IV mark avella yo
chica Dasha annum each day passes
through charisma Sharia capture dr. drew
como oh no you do two brushes Nemanja no
catch the fish skin the status on your
machine puro Archuleta in Syria snow
machine Annie put your chest wilchester
bhagwat no PR oj nedavno kupili starry
dome nagar guzara Salar Lisa extra
choked am visible vayas a copy on shoot
a pre do move it on suit can decline
year would cut that I must now the puss
increase apology needs [__] down walk
Napa State total exceeds await a
bhutanese reason you know geesh Todd
Portugal which on the castle doesn t me
a rookie not motion which Allah reckon
this [__] granny Shiva's motorist I
like telling a story saying you know I
went you know to to Liberia about a year
and a half ago two to help with with the
the fight against Ebola yeah and some
people ask me you know why you're going
when you're working in Belarus right you
don't that's not to go there I know why
did you have to volunteer to go there
you're trying to be a martyr and a
Superman or whatever but the reason is
this and this is what these parents need
to understand Ebola is today in Liberia
yeah but we realize that it doesn't stay
in Liberia Ebola that appears in in
Liberia ends up in New York in Amsterdam
a conflict in Syria ends up in the
streets of Paris a conflict in Donbass
has an impact in Minsk so let's discuss
this problem with migrants refugees
where is the limit of patience of
tolerance is this is a very very
difficult very difficult question and I
think sadly we're probably going to see
more of it than less of it so one of the
things that we need to do used to look
at the source where are these people
coming from when are they likely to come
from and as much as possible preempted
to think even into the future we should
think of where might be the next Syria
and we need to act before a crisis to
try to either prevent a crisis or to
mitigate the consequences of crisis this
is number one I think secondly in terms
of people who are now coming it is very
important that
we distinguish between those who have a
legitimate claim to Asylum status or are
displaced because of a conflict and
others who may be more opportunistic
it's so legal process it's really
expensive to come to your robots but
that's the thing so these people are
spending all their life savings maybe
even borrowing money risking their lives
and flimsy boards and so on and paying
into these unscrupulous criminals who
are exploiting human suffering for their
own game business now it's a it's a
terrible business and that's all and we
have helped in some ways unfortunately
to let that kind of business flourish
because we don't have a proper process
of screening and bringing people over
and then finally I think you know we
have to think of this as a collective
responsibility it is impossible for any
one or two or three countries to deal
with this and so it's really a global I
think response that we need not just
only a European one even you know
billion dollars have heard the same
problems the same question after the
crisis in Ukraine well first I should
recognize the fact that actually Belarus
has really done a good job and a
government is done a good job to provide
services to those who came from Ukraine
at the same time I think that we're
fortunate and I and I hope it will never
happen but if it did happen that you had
a million for example or two million and
displace people come in to Belarus it
will be very difficult even for better I
have tell me exactly so can you imagine
if you suddenly had to be together
people come back here who at this place
and that's the reason that's the point I
was trying to make you know we can't
just simply think that we can guard our
borders if people start coming so what
is the plan if hopefully never but if
this were to happen what is the plan do
we have a plan and that's one of the
things that we would like is a un I
think do to help Belarus to think about
have a contingency plan talk to its
neighborhoods talk to to to other
countries etc it's Russia to Ukraine of
course but also the EU countries there
is a fear all these people are different
they have a different religion then
speak a different language they look
different they're just coming here to
get as much opportunities and take what
what what we have is it not true but you
see look at me in some ways you can say
I'm a migrant worker too right i'm here
i'm not from belarus i'm doing a job and
I'm hopefully doing something useful for
your country and I'll come from far away
but you know it wasn't always like this
when there was a war in my country I
went to the United States because
universities were closed in in Sri Lanka
at the time and I was you know I was a
journalist it was a very tough place for
a journalist to to be during that time
and so I I was in the United States and
people may have said oh who's this guy
you know it's coming and Nina
like a refugee from a country that is in
conflict well I went on versity I became
a lawyer I hope I contributed something
to be to American society I lived there
for 15 years and I think that you know
we have to stop thinking of people who
are different to us as people who are
going to take everything this is part of
the problem i think that people feel
that that whatever it is that we have is
going to be taken away from us because
we don't understand that they can
actually give us possibly more than what
we have already now i hope i've
contributed something to Villa Rosa have
i am not sure i hope so where is home
for you what does says Walt worth home
hey how are you well I think Sri Lanka
is always going to be home for me
because you know it's where I grew up
and it's where my parents live but it's
also
only one home perhaps it's it's for me
one route maybe the solid root of a tree
but I have lived in 20 some countries
and I of course have developed strong
links to two most of these countries and
so I think you know I could easily
consider any of those places so I'm
including Bell herbs now after more than
three years thank you who you want me to
stay oh sure you're welcome always thank
you for your time for your opinion and
hold your open mind thank you very much
as Bingley thanks really nice